welcome back to natural language
processing now we're going to continue
our
information extraction by focusing on a
relation extraction so what is relation
extraction well if you have entities we
can often be interested in the links
between those entities for example a
certain person works for a certain
company or a certain company
manufactures a certain product or a
certain company is located at a certain
location and so on so one of the
earliest research challenges that were
done in this area is called muk muk
stands for message understanding
conference it had multiple iterations in
the 90s and early 2000s it was an annual
competition and it was about extracting
events from news stories so the events
were things like terrorist events joint
ventures management changes and so on
there was a different scenario pretty
much every year so the valuation metrics
were things like precision and recall an
F measure in filling out the slots of
the different fields so here's an
example of a mark story this is from the
MUC five English joint ventures tasks so
it talks about Bridgestone sports
Corporation said Friday that it has set
up a joint venture in Taiwan with a
local concern and a Japanese trading
house to produce golf clubs to be
shipped to Japan so in this particular
implementation of the mark challenge the
participants were given a set of
articles like those and they had to
identify the companies that were having
a joint venture and then fill in a set
of slots about the particular event this
slide is it to be difficult to read but
if you look at it in more detail you'll
see that it includes things like the
name of the company that is initiating
the joint venture the name of the
partner company the location of the
joint venture and the day that it is
effective and so on so this is the
expected output and as I mentioned
before systems were evaluated based on
how often they correctly identified the
slots and their field their values so
other examples of information regulation
extraction are things like job
announcements so for job analysis
who want to find out things like the
location of the job the title of the job
starting date possibly the list of
qualifications the starting salary
seminar announcements we're interested
in filling out slots like time the title
the location the speaker for medical
papers we want to be able to extract
things like the drug the disease gene or
protein a cell line a species or
substance so filling the templates so
some of the fields have to be filled by
text on the document so essentially
extracting an entire string of text for
example the name of a company or the
name of a gene directly from the
document others can be predefined values
for example whether a certain attempt
was successful or not there's like a
successful merger or whether the merger
was unsuccessful so fuels allow for just
one value some allow for multiple values
and so on so what are the common
approaches that I used in information
extraction and specifically relation
extraction
well information extraction is viewed as
a sequence labeling problem and people
use hmms you can also use patterns for
example regular expressions so regular
expressions is something that comes up a
lot in natural language processing so I
would like to spend a little bit of time
to talk about it here I will do this in
the next set of slides
people also use features for example the
capitalization of the words is it in
caps initial or all caps does it contain
digits
what kind of suffix is it contains what
kind of punctuation it contains and so
on so here some regular expressions that
are used in the programming language
there are similar expressions in other
common languages like Java and Python so
the carrot for example in por is used to
match the beginning of a string it's
also if it's used within a set of square
brackets it means the complement of the
rest of the symbols mentioned in there
for example if you want to find anything
that is not the letter a you would
include it in a pair of square brackets
caret a the door sign matches the end of
a string the period matches any
character in the string except for
newline character the star matches zero
or more occurrences of the same
bo+ matches one or more occurrences
question mark matches zero or one
occurrences the vertical bar allows you
to search for alternatives for example
you may be looking for megahertz or
gigahertz as a property of a computer
and you would say something like
megahertz vertical bar gigahertz you can
also do things like grouping and memory
essentially are being able to replace
entire sequences of characters a star
means zero more occurrences of something
a curly brace and then a number closing
curly brace me that you want exactly M
occurrences of that thing if you put in
the curly braces on like M comma where M
is a number you're looking for at least
that many occurrences of a if you put
two numbers separated with a comma you
are looking for at least M but at most n
occurrences of that particular symbol
and there are so special symbols that
match things like new lines tabs
carriage returns any letter any number
anything that is not a letter anything
that is not a number
backslash B matches the word boundary
backslash capital B matches anything
that is not a word boundary and you can
also have ranges of things for example
if you say left square bracket a dash be
closing the square bracket that would
tell you that you can match any
character from A to B inclusive even if
you have a to Z that will match any
character in the alphabet as long as it
is in lowercase if you want to match any
character in the alphabet it is either
lower case or upper case you will need
to say something like left base little a
dash little Z followed by capital a dash
capital z followed by a closing square
bracket in the section on regular
expressions and automata you will find
out more about the way that those
expressions are used and computed so
here some patterns that I use in
information extraction so for example to
identify prices something like $14,000
you can use the expression that says
look for the special symbol dollar sign
followed by
either a 0 or 1 or 2 or anything up to 9
or the the symbol comma repeated as many
times as necessary followed by any
sequence that starts with the period and
then includes exactly 2 occurrences of
the digits from 0 to 9
so this regular expression is going to
match $14,000 like written as above it
to also match $14,000 without the comma
but it's not going to match $14,000
period and then three digits so the
question mark at the end of the regular
expression just tells you that the
fractional portion is optional so here's
an example where an expression that
matches a date in the format
year-month-day so something like this
carrot 4 beginning of string that either
19 or 20 for the 20th and 21st century
respectively then followed by any two
digits followed by you know - followed
by a two-digit sequence for the month
but it has to be in a specific format so
that only valid months are acceptable
and then finally we have the last two
digits that correspond to all the days
of the month so anywhere from 0 1 to 31
now this expression obviously doesn't
have enough information to determine
that we have only 28 days or 29 days in
February but 31 days in May and July but
at least it does a good job with what it
has here's an example of an expression
that matches email addresses something
like this as you can see it's a fairly
sophisticated expression important
things are that it has to include an @
sign somewhere then at the end it has to
have an extension that starts with the
period and then it has anywhere from 2
to 4 characters to cover things like dot
us.com dot in 4 and so on I think that
nowadays there are domains that have
more than 4 characters so this
expression would obviously need to be
revised have much person we can include
things like for example sequence of two
words that such that the first one
starts with a capital letter and the
second one starts with a capital letter
obvious
this is not going to match all the
persons there are people who have three
names and one name and so on it's also
possible to come up with patters it
includes some HTML code so that they can
be used to scrape websites for example
to extract price information from
websites like Amazon and eBay it can
also put part of speech information so
for example you may be looking for any
noun followed by any adjective and so on
and it can also include word meta
information for example you may be
searching for a sequence so that the
second word in the sequence is something
that belongs to the organization subtree
of wordnet so that would include things
like company and newspaper and so on so
here's a simple sample input format for
named entity recognition this is a
parsed sentence on the penn treebank who
the knew 55 years old and former
chairman of consolidated gold fields plc
was named a non-executive director of
this British industrial conglomerate so
the example output that I'm going to
show you is in the so called IOB format
this is a very common format in many
different natural language processing
tasks including a part of speech tagging
named entity recognition semantic role
labeling and so on so what is IOB stands
for it stands that for the fact that
every word in the sequence can be
labeled as either o which stands for
other or it could be a B followed by
some label or an eye followed by the
same label B stands for beginning of the
label and I stands for inside so let's
look at this example here the first
named entity here is hood of Agnew the
first word of it is labeled as B person
because it's the beginning of a person
the next one is neighbor this AI person
because it's part of the person but it's
not the beginning the next thing is a
comma which is labeled as all because
it's not anything that we're interested
in further down we have consolidated
goldfields plc which is a company name
as you can see the word consolidated is
labeled with a beginning symbol for
Galatian and then the rest of the words
in that organization
goldfields and PLC are all labeled as I
- org now you can imagine that it's
possible to perform the identity
recognition in two steps in the first
step we recognize that consolidated
goldfields POC is some sort of named
entity and then we can use any standard
classification method to determine what
specific type of named entity it is so
how do you evaluate template based
information extraction well it's very
straightforward for each test document
let's each new story or its scientific
paper if you got first or how many
correct template extractions happens so
for example if the task is to identify
mergers between companies and we are
given a document that doesn't have any
such mergers then the correct number of
template extractions is zero if we end
up with more than zero that means that
we have made a mistake
now the next thing is to figure out how
many slot and value pairs were extracted
for any of the different templates so
for the case of management succession
for example in work you can have the
name of the person who's being replaced
in the organization and the name of the
person who's replacing that previous
person if you get both of those
correctly you would get two points if
you miss one of them you would only get
half of the points and finally want to
get the number of extracted slot value
pairs that are actually correct not just
extracted so about the population
extraction there are many different
relations that exist in text for example
population between two people that can
be parent of or married two managers you
can have relations between person and an
organization for example a person can
work for a certain organization and you
can also have relations between two
different organizations for example
organization a is part of organization B
you can also have organization location
relations for example such a such
organization is headquartered at
such-and-such location so this leads me
to another evaluation that was used in
the early 2000s mostly following mark
it's the so called ace evaluation for
automatic on content extraction
evaluation the task
was to use a set of newspaper articles
from 2002 and to identify all the
entities that belong to the following
categories person organization facility
location and geopolitical entity and
also to identify all the relations
between those entities for example
things like a whole part located near
and social circulation extraction in
general is a very important core and OPA
task it's used for building knowledge
bases for question answering and so on
its input is given a sentence for
example Mazda North American operations
is headquartered in Irvine California
and the output is supposed to be a tuple
that consists of the organization in
this case Mazda North American
operations a location in this case
Irvine California and then the label for
the relation specifically in this
example is headquartered in so in
predicate form this is just the tuple is
headquartered in with the first argument
Mazda North American operations and the
second argument the city of Irvine
California and as you can see this
relation is very common there many
organizations in each organization can
have a specific location for their
headquarters so it's very easy to build
databases and use standard database
techniques for querying those databases
once we have performed all the
information extraction and relation
extraction steps okay so the different
techniques that I use formulation
extraction some of them involve using
patterns for example regular expressions
and gazetteers
and others for in the usual categories
of supervised learning and
semi-supervised learning we're going to
look at some examples of semi-supervised
learning in a minute but let's first
look at some examples of extracting
relations specifically is our relations
using patterns so this example comes
from a paper by Marty Hirsch from the
90s so she says that to extract is our
relations you have to find patterns that
say something like this X and other Y or
X or otherwise y such as X Y including X
Y especially X where Y is the more
general category and X is the less
general category so for example
evolutionary relationships between the
platypus and other mammals so in this
case the expression and other gives us a
hint that platypus is X and mom o is y
and more specifically that platypus is a
kind of mammal
now what about supervised relation
extraction well in this case we want to
look for sentences that have 20 T's that
we know are part of the target relation
and then look at the other words in the
sentence especially the ones between the
two entities and build a classifier that
looks for those clue words between the
target words and help us classify the
entire tuple so here's an example in
English we have a sentence like
Beethoven was born in December 1717 bond
so was born is the expression that links
together the two entities Beethoven and
1770 there are other ways to express the
same relation however so for example
born in born in 1770 comma Beethoven's
dot or after his birth on December 16th
1770 bit oven grew up in a musical
family you can see that it's not always
the case that the clue phrase like in
this case born and birth have to appear
between the two words that we're trying
to link they can appear outside of them
but usually they appear somewhere nearby
here's one more example Ludwig van
Beethoven left behind this is 1770 1827
which are the his birth year and year of
death so this is another expression that
we may want to look for to find more
instances of the relation person was
born in a certain year he's known more
example while this evidence supports the
case for 16 December 1770 as Beethoven's
date of birth again we have date of
birth here as the clue phrase it turns
out that those techniques can be used in
non-english languages as well so here
just a few examples from Spanish and
German in German we have ludwig van
beethoven voor de i'm shifting the
december in bonn 'get out Venus
case would they get aft is the
expression that indicates that he was
born on that particular date and then he
we have also vote they get born which is
not a way to say the same thing and we
have also Derrick aboard stock or the
birthday of Ludwig van Beethoven and
again it connects the name of the person
with the year the Spanish examples nacio
in Spanish means was born so again it
connects the named entity person with a
named entity for the time or we can have
nacido and bond nacido means born in
bond 1770 beethoven dot dot dot or not
vic van beethoven nothing in this embryo
nothing in this case means is born in
December 1770 so the third method for
Galatian extraction is semi-supervised
in that example we have some training
data for example some seed expressions
like beethoven was born in December 1770
in Bonn now we know that this sentence
represents a valid instance of the tuple
x was born in the year Y so the next
thing that we need to figure out is what
other sentences contain both Beethoven
and 1770 so there are probably many
different ways in which we can express
the relation between those two but we
expect that some of the words that
appear nearby Beethoven and 7070 are the
ones that carry the meaning of the
relation so maybe we're going to learn
that birth date is such an example then
we were to start looking for expressions
of opinion by like birth date and then
we're going to use those expressions now
to find other instances containing other
people in their birth dates in other
sentences in other documents okay so now
let's look at the different ways in
between and evaluate relation extraction
well relation extraction is essentially
a classification task so we want to
measure things like precision which is
the number of correct extracted
relations divided by the number of
extracted relation relations in the
Ricoh which is the number of correct
extracted
/ all the existing relations and you can
also combine the two into f1 measure
which is the harmonic mean of precision
and recall now all those metrics work
well if we have annotated data but if
there is not an updated data it's not
possible to measure reco because we
don't know what we're missing we can
only measure precision okay so to
conclude probabilistic NLP is very
important one of the most crucial
examples of formalistic an opiate action
is part of speech tagging uses a hidden
Markov models and information extraction
also uses the same kind of techniques
for probabilistic natural language
processing and there's one more
technique that is used in information
extraction called conditional random
fields which we did not cover and you
can look it up in the textbook so this
concludes the section and information
extraction
thank you for your attachment